


-SUA_2021_AUST.xlsx
- SUA_association_2016_2021.xlsx 
Area of Significant urban areas can be extracted


Downloaded 2023-06-22 from
https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/standards/australian-statistical-geography-standard-asgs-edition-3/jul2021-jun2026/access-and-downloads/allocation-files


--- Info on Significant Urban Areas (SUA) --

Retrieved 2023-05-22
https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/standards/australian-statistical-geography-standard-asgs-edition-3/jul2021-jun2026/significant-urban-areas-urban-centres-and-localities-section-state/significant-urban-areas#sua-design-criteria



Significant Urban Areas (SUAs) represent Urban Centres, or groups of Urban Centres, that contain population of 10,000 persons or more. They are based on Urban Centres and Localities (UCLs) and built from Statistical Areas Level 2 (SA2). This enables a wider variety of statistical data to be available on this geography including non-Census data such as Estimated Resident Population (ERP).
SUA design criteria

Significant Urban Areas are designed by combining one or more adjacent SA2s based on the following criteria:

    SA2s containing an Urban Centre of 10,000 persons or more are considered to be Significant Urban Areas. Other SA2s containing Urban Centres within a 5 kilometre distance via sealed road of large Urban Centres can be aggregated into the same Significant Urban Area.
    SA2s containing Urban Centres of 7,000 persons or more can be considered for classification as a Significant Urban Area if there are other Urban Centres within a 5 kilometre distance via sealed road and the combined population of the Urban Centres is over 10,000.
    SA2s that are included in an SUA should all be within the same Labour Market as defined by the Greater Capital City Statistical Area (GCCSA) classification. The Statistical Areas Level 4 (SA4) of Newcastle, Lake Macquarie and Hunter (exc Newcastle) are considered the same Labour Market.
    SUAs can cross state and territory borders.
    SA2s that are not classed as being in an SUA are combined to form a Not in any Significant Urban Area region for each state and territory. Combined they cover all of the country without gaps or overlaps.

SUA name criteria

The key criteria for Significant Urban Area names are that they be:

    meaningful
    maximum of 50 characters
    unique within Australia

Significant Urban Areas that contain a single Urban Centre will be named after that Urban Centre, for example:

    Alice Springs
    Albany
    Mount Gambier

Significant Urban Areas that represent a combination of two or more Urban Centres will reflect the names of the Urban Centre(s) that contribute the greater population, for example:

    Newcastle – Maitland
    Victor Harbour – Goolwa

Where a Significant Urban Area crosses a state or territory border it is named after the largest Urban Centre on each side, for example:

    Gold Coast – Tweed Heads
    Canberra – Queanbeyan

Where a Significant Urban Area represents an identifiable region which contains multiple Urban Centres, it is named for that region, for example:

    Central Coast
    Sunshine Coast

SUA coding structure

Significant Urban Areas are identifiable by a unique 4-digit non-hierarchical code, with the first digit identifying the State or Territory. Significant Urban Areas which cross state boundaries are identified by the state or territory which contains the Urban Centre with the largest population in that Significant Urban Area. The regions representing those parts of a state or territory Not in a Significant Urban Area have codes ending in 000.

The remaining three digits of Significant Urban Area codes are assigned alphabetically within each state and territory starting from 001. As a result, the codes used for Edition 3 Significant Urban Areas may not match those used previously as some names have change since Edition 2 (2016).
SUA code and name examplesS/T	SUA	SUA name
5	009	Perth
3	007	Gold Coast - Tweed Heads
8	000	Not in a Significant Urban Area (ACT)

 
SUA changes

Large urban areas and their populations are dynamic. They can grow, absorb nearby centres or decline. Consequently, Significant Urban Areas (SUAs) change between editions so that they continue to provide an effective statistical representation of these urban areas. Some examples of the way Significant Urban Areas can change are described below.